TRACING-3926 | Release notes for RHOSDT 3.1 (#71235)
openshift/openshift-docs: distr_tracing/distr_tracing_rn/distr-tracing-rn-3-1.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: ASSEMBLY
include::_attributes/common-attributes.adoc[]
[id="distributed-tracing-rn-3-0"]
= Release notes for {DTProductName} 3.1
:context: distributed-tracing-rn-3-1

toc::[]

include::modules/distr-tracing-product-overview.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

[id="component-versions_distributed-tracing-rn-3-1"]
== Component versions in the {DTProductName} 3.1

[options="header"]
|===
|Operator |Component |Version
|{JaegerName}
|Jaeger
|1.53.0

|xref:../../otel/otel-release-notes.adoc[{OTELName}]
|OpenTelemetry

> |0.92.0

Reviewer: It's `0.93.0` in the other file:
```suggestion
|0.93.0
```

=== Deprecated functionality

In Red Hat OpenShift distributed tracing 3.1, Jaeger and Elasticsearch are deprecated, and both are planned to be removed in a future release. Red Hat will provide critical and above CVE bug fixes and support for these components during the current release lifecycle, but these components will no longer receive feature enhancements.

In Red Hat OpenShift distributed tracing 3.1, Tempo provided by the {TempoOperator} and the OpenTelemetry collector provided by the Red Hat build of OpenTelemetry are the preferred Operators for distributed tracing collection and storage. The OpenTelemetry and Tempo distributed tracing stack is to be adopted by all users because this will be the stack that will be enhanced going forward.

[id="new-features-and-enhancements_jaeger-release-notes_distributed-tracing-rn-3-1"]
=== New features and enhancements

This update introduces the following enhancements for the {JaegerShortName}:

* Nothing

[id="bug-fixes_jaeger-release-notes_distributed-tracing-rn-3-1"]
=== Bug fixes

This update introduces the following bug fixes for the {JaegerShortName}:

> * Fix nondeterministic jaeger-agent injection. Now the operator prefers Jaeger instance from the same namespace as the target deployment. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/TRACING-3722[TRACING-3722])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Fixed nondeterministic `jaeger-agent` injection. With this update, the operator prioritizes the Jaeger instance from the same namespace as the target deployment. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/TRACING-3722[TRACING-3722])
```
